Why Building High-Performing Engineering Teams is Critical
- Survival. 
- Costs are high. 
- Defining outcomes or outputs can get tricky 
- Building software is creative work. Unlike brick and mortar where work is always clearly visible and can be measures. 
- Customer needs are dynamically changing. 
- Competitor landscape is dynamically changing. 
- Engineering Leadership major task is to building high performing teams. 
- Under this first i would like to cover how building teams for developing software applications is different from the rest. At least in your own experience. 
- Building software is a highly creative process. 
- As opposed to traditional engineering, its an iterative process


The Evolving Challenges of Software Development
- Software development is highly creative work. 
- Developing software application is both art and science. 
- Every programmer is a designer. There is design aspect involved in every line of code. 
- Technologies and tools are changing rapidly and teams need to adopt to these changes. 
- Requirements are never written in stone. A lot depends upon how teams understand world of their customers and users. 
- Unlike other things such as construction, a software application evolves over time both horizontally and vertically. It requires refactoring. Inculcating changes in technologies. A far sight is needed which is rare in the application world both in founders and in architects. 
- Architecture and designs are still very highly opiniated subject. There are no fixed standards since there are many competing technologies in every arena. 

An Overview of the Book’s Journey
- Talk about your journey of being an engineering leader and difficulties challenges you have faced. 
- Talk about who this book is for and how engineering leaders can craft their own path with this book of their leadership journey into managing software engineering teams. 
- There is lot of pain in the industry. At leadership level there is lack of understanding at engineer level there is lack of knowledge. 
- Applications are built in hurry and in most cases there is no 'design' or 'architecture'
- Agile has been highly misused in name of 'no documentation' or 'no design / architecture'. Engineering leaders have in general poor understanding of Agile as principals and everyone has twisted these principals as per their own convenience. 
